---
title: '2. Create Container Apps environment'  
layout: default  
nav_order: 2  
parent: 'Lab 2: Deploy applications to Azure Container Apps'
---

# Create an Azure Container Apps environment

With your user information stored in environment variables, you’re ready to begin the first step in the deployment: creating an Azure Container Apps instance.

This involves three things:

1.  Creating a resource group.
2.  Creating the virtual network. In addition to the Container Apps environment, you’ll use this network in following labs to add more networking features.
3.  Deploying a new Azure Container Apps environment to the resource group and configuring it to use the virtual network that you created.

{: .note}
> To learn more about deploying container apps, refer to [Tutorial: Deploy your first container app](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/container-apps/tutorial-deploy-first-app-cli?tabs=bash).

## Step-by-step guidance

1.  Run the following commands to create a resource group, which you’ll use for all subsequent resources that you’ll create in this lab. Replace the \<*azure-region*\> placeholder with the name of the Azure region you want to use:

    ```bash
    UNIQUEID=$(openssl rand -hex 3)
    APPNAME=petclinic
    RESOURCE_GROUP=rg-$APPNAME-$UNIQUEID
    LOCATION=<azure-region>
    az group create -g $RESOURCE_GROUP -l $LOCATION

    az configure --default group=$RESOURCE_GROUP
    ```

    {: .note }
    > Not all regions support Azure Container Apps environments and Azure Database for MySQL - Flexible Server instances. For more info, please refer to [Region availability]({% link tips.md %}\#region-availability).

    {: .note }
    > This lab uses quite a few environment variables. If you’re using a codespace to run this lab and the codespace restarts, your environment variables will be lost. For methods to persist these environment variables across codespace sessions, go to the [LabTips]({% link tips.md %}) section.

1.  Create a virtual network and subnet for your Container Apps environment to use:

    ```bash
    VIRTUAL_NETWORK_NAME=vnet-$APPNAME-$UNIQUEID
    az network vnet create \
        --resource-group $RESOURCE_GROUP \
        --name $VIRTUAL_NETWORK_NAME \
        --location $LOCATION \
        --address-prefix 10.1.0.0/16

    ACA_SUBNET_CIDR=10.1.0.0/27
    az network vnet subnet create \
        --resource-group $RESOURCE_GROUP \
        --vnet-name $VIRTUAL_NETWORK_NAME \
        --address-prefixes $ACA_SUBNET_CIDR \
        --name aca-subnet \
        --delegations Microsoft.App/environments
    ```

1.  Store the subnet ID as an environment variable. You’ll need this ID when you create the Container Apps environment:

    ```bash
    SUBNET_ID=$(az network vnet subnet show --resource-group $RESOURCE_GROUP --vnet-name $VIRTUAL_NETWORK_NAME --name aca-subnet --query id -o tsv)
    ```

1.  Create a new Azure Container Apps environment in your resource group, and configure it to use the new subnet. We’ll be creating the service on an [Azure Container Apps Dedicated plan](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/container-apps/plans#dedicated) using the [workload profiles](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/container-apps/workload-profiles-overview) option. This plan gives you more advanced features than the alternative [Azure Container Apps Consumption plan](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/container-apps/plans#consumption) type:

    ```bash
    ACA_ENVIRONMENT=acalab-env-$APPNAME-$UNIQUEID
    az containerapp env create \
        -n $ACA_ENVIRONMENT \
        -g $RESOURCE_GROUP \
        --location $LOCATION \
        --enable-workload-profiles true \
        --infrastructure-subnet-resource-id $SUBNET_ID \
        --logs-destination none

    ACA_ENVIRONMENT_ID=$(az containerapp env show -n $ACA_ENVIRONMENT -g $RESOURCE_GROUP --query id -o tsv)
    ```

    {: .note }
    > If you’re using Git Bash and get an error message related to the resource ID, run the command export MSYS_NO_PATHCONV=1. Then wait for the provisioning to complete, and try again. This might take about three minutes.

1.  Confirm that the new resources have deployed correctly:
    1.  In your browser, go to the [Azure portal](http://portal.azure.com).
    1.  Go to Resource groups, and select the new resource group you just created.
    1.  In the resource group overview, you should find your newly created Azure Container Apps environment and virtual network.

        {: .note }
        > If you don't immediately find the Container Apps environment in the resource group overview list, wait a moment and then select `Refresh` a few times until it appears.

        {: .note }
        > You may also notice an additional resource group (beginning with “ME_”) in your subscription. This resource group, which you created in this set of steps, will also contain any associated resources created to support the Container Apps environment and virtual network.