---
title: '3. Configure Application Insights'  
layout: default  
nav_order: 3  
parent: 'Lab 3: Enable monitoring'
---

# Configure Application Insights to receive monitoring information from your applications

You’ve set up monitoring for the Azure Container Apps service that hosts your application. However, you also want to get information from the applications themselves—both to determine how well they’re running and to potentially detect anomalous activity. To track this application-specific monitoring data, you‘ll use Application Insights, a feature of Azure Monitor.

In the following steps, you’ll create an Application Insights resource and enable application monitoring for each of your microservices. You won’t have to change anything in the microservices themselves, since you can use the Java [autoinstrumentation feature of Application Insights](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/app/codeless-overview), which applies an agent-based approach to collect the monitoring data.

However, to add the required monitoring agents to your apps, you’ll need to update your deployed microservices to include an Application Insights JAR file. This will involve modifying your containers by using an updated Dockerfile and then redeploying your apps. To make this happen, you will:

- Create the Dockerfile for containerizing your microservices.
- Add the Application Insights JAR file to your Dockerfile.
- Add an environment variable to your microservices with the connection string info for your Application Insights instance.
- Define a role-name for each of the microservices in the cluster. This indicates to Application Insights which microservice the monitoring data is coming from, to support the creation of a proper [Application map](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/app/app-map?tabs=net) from the recorded data.

For additional information on how this works, review:

- [Enable Azure Monitor OpenTelemetry for .NET, Node.js, Python, and Java applications](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/app/opentelemetry-enable?tabs=java)
- [Spring Boot via Docker entry point](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/app/java-spring-boot#spring-boot-via-docker-entry-point)
- [Workspace-based Application Insights resources](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/app/create-workspace-resource#create-a-resource-automatically)

## Step-by-step guidance

1.  Your first step is to create an Application Insights resource. Execute this statement in your command-line environment:

    ```bash
    az extension add -n application-insights --upgrade --yes

    APP_INSIGHTS_NAME=app-insights-$APPNAME-$UNIQUEID
    az monitor app-insights component create \
        --resource-group $RESOURCE_GROUP \
        --app $APP_INSIGHTS_NAME \
        --location $LOCATION \
        --kind web \
        --workspace $WORKSPACE_ID
    ```

1.  Store the Application Insights connection string as an environment variable. (You’ll need this later in the module.)

    ```bash
    APP_INSIGHTS_CONN=$(az monitor app-insights component show --app $APP_INSIGHTS_NAME -g $RESOURCE_GROUP --query connectionString --output tsv)
    ```

    {: .note }
    > In the previous lab’s [Deploy app]({% link docs/02_lab_launch/0207.md %}) section, you already built the target image with the application insights agent included, so you won’t need to modify that.

1.  Update the **api-gateway** container app to enable Application Insights Agent.

    Notice how you’re setting the environment variables JAVA_TOOL_OPTIONS, APPLICATIONINSIGHTS_CONNECTION_STRING, and APPLICATIONINSIGHTS_CONFIGURATION_CONTENT.

    ```bash
    APP_NAME="api-gateway"
    az containerapp update \
        --name $APP_NAME \
        --resource-group $RESOURCE_GROUP \
        --set-env-vars JAVA_TOOL_OPTIONS='-javaagent:/applicationinsights-agent.jar' APPLICATIONINSIGHTS_CONNECTION_STRING="$APP_INSIGHTS_CONN" APPLICATIONINSIGHTS_CONFIGURATION_CONTENT='{"role": {"name": "'$APP_NAME'"}}'
    ```

1.  After the app **api-gateway** deployment succeeds, you’ll need to execute the same statements on the other microservices: customers-service, vets-service, and visits-service.

    To save time, you can use the preconfigured script ../tools/update-apps-appinsights.sh to deploy all of the apps in a batch:

    ```bash
    export RESOURCE_GROUP APP_INSIGHTS_CONN
    ../tools/update-apps-appinsights.sh
    ```

    {: .note }
    > The script [../tools/update-apps-appinsights.sh](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/java-microservices-aca-lab/blob/main/tools/update-apps-appinsights.sh) includes all the steps to update the target apps, and it runs the commands in parallel to save time. If you’d like to explore the details, open the file and review its contents.

    (Optional) Alternatively, you can manually build each app individually by running the following commands:

    ```bash
    APP_NAME="customers-service"
    az containerapp update \
        --name $APP_NAME \
        --resource-group $RESOURCE_GROUP \
        --set-env-vars JAVA_TOOL_OPTIONS='-javaagent:/applicationinsights-agent.jar' APPLICATIONINSIGHTS_CONNECTION_STRING="$APP_INSIGHTS_CONN" APPLICATIONINSIGHTS_CONFIGURATION_CONTENT='{"role": {"name": "'$APP_NAME'"}}'

    APP_NAME="vets-service"
    az containerapp update \
        --name $APP_NAME \
        --resource-group $RESOURCE_GROUP \
        --set-env-vars JAVA_TOOL_OPTIONS='-javaagent:/applicationinsights-agent.jar' APPLICATIONINSIGHTS_CONNECTION_STRING="$APP_INSIGHTS_CONN" APPLICATIONINSIGHTS_CONFIGURATION_CONTENT='{"role": {"name": "'$APP_NAME'"}}'

    APP_NAME="visits-service"
    az containerapp update \
        --name $APP_NAME \
        --resource-group $RESOURCE_GROUP \
        --set-env-vars JAVA_TOOL_OPTIONS='-javaagent:/applicationinsights-agent.jar' APPLICATIONINSIGHTS_CONNECTION_STRING="$APP_INSIGHTS_CONN" APPLICATIONINSIGHTS_CONFIGURATION_CONTENT='{"role": {"name": "'$APP_NAME'"}}'
    ```

    {: .note }
    > Notice that for each of the microservices, we indicate a different role-name. Application Insights uses this role-name in its Application map feature to show the communication between your microservices.

    {: .note }
    > After redeploying, you’ll need to make sure everything is back up and running as expected. Verify that your services are operational, and check the console log to determine whether any service is in a failed state.

