---
title: '1. Create Service Bus'
layout: default
nav_order: 1
parent: 'Lab 8: Send messages between microservices'
---

# Create an Azure Service Bus resource

First, you need to create an Azure Service Bus namespace and one or more queues to send messages to. In your implementation, you will create a queue named `visits-requests`. You can use the following guidance to implement these changes:

- [Use the Azure CLI to create a Service Bus namespace and a queue](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/service-bus-messaging/service-bus-quickstart-cli).
- [Use Azure CLI to create a Service Bus topic and subscriptions to the topic](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/service-bus-messaging/service-bus-tutorial-topics-subscriptions-cli).

Make sure to create the Service Bus namespace with the **Premium** SKU, since this is required in order to support JMS 2.0 messaging. For a more secure connection, you should also use managed identities associated with your microservices to connect directly to the Service Bus namespace. In this lab, you could use the identity that attached to the container apps environment earlier.

The connection to the Service Bus needs to be stored in the `spring.jms.servicebus` application property. Add the following section to the `application.yml` file and fill out the Service Bus namespace and the client id of the identity in your configuration repository.

   ```yaml
     jms:
       servicebus:
          namespace: ${SERVICEBUS_NAMESPACE}
          pricing-tier: premium
          passwordless-enabled: true
          credential:
             managed-identity-enabled: true
             client-id: ${CLIENT_ID}
   ```

{: .note }
> Particular attention to indentation as shown above is important: `jms` should be at the same indentation level as `config`, `datasource` and `cloud`.

## Step by step guidance

1. On your lab computer, in Git Bash window, from the Git Bash prompt, run the following command to create a Service Bus namespace. Note that the name of the namespace needs to be globally unique, so adjust it accordingly in case the randomly generated name is already in use. You will need to create the namespace with the **Premium** sku. This is needed to use JMS 2.0 messaging later on in the lab.

   ```bash
   SERVICEBUS_NAMESPACE=sb-$APPNAME-$UNIQUEID

   az servicebus namespace create \
       --resource-group $RESOURCE_GROUP \
       --name $SERVICEBUS_NAMESPACE \
       --location $LOCATION \
       --sku Premium
   ```

1. You can now create a queue in this namespace called visits-requests.

   ```bash
   az servicebus queue create \
       --resource-group $RESOURCE_GROUP \
       --namespace-name $SERVICEBUS_NAMESPACE \
       --name visits-requests
   ```

1. Retrieve the resource id of the new created Service Bus namespace.
   ```bash
   SERVICEBUS_ID=$(az servicebus namespace show --resource-group $RESOURCE_GROUP --name $SERVICEBUS_NAMESPACE --query id -o tsv)
   echo $SERVICEBUS_ID
   ```

1. Retrieve the information of the user identity attached to the container app environment.
   ```bash
   SP_ID=$(az identity show --resource-group $RESOURCE_GROUP --name $ACA_IDENTITY --query principalId --output tsv)
   echo $SP_ID
   CLIENT_ID=$(az identity show --resource-group $RESOURCE_GROUP --name $ACA_IDENTITY --query clientId --output tsv)
   echo $CLIENT_ID
   ```

1. Assign access for the identity to send message to or receive message from the Service Bus. Azure provides a set of [built-in roles](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/service-bus-messaging/service-bus-managed-service-identity#azure-built-in-roles-for-azure-service-bus) for authorizing access to a Service Bus namespace.

   ```bash
   az role assignment create --assignee $SP_ID --scope $SERVICEBUS_ID --role "Azure Service Bus Data Sender"
   az role assignment create --assignee $SP_ID --scope $SERVICEBUS_ID --role "Azure Service Bus Data Receiver"
   ```

1. In the config repository you will need to add the service bus connection information. Replace the contents of the current `application.yml` file with the contents of the [0801_application.yml file](0801_application.yml). Make sure you fill out your current MySQL server name on line `12`, the service bus namespace and identity client id will be injected by above environment variables. This file includes the following changes:

   - An additional `spring.jms.servicebus` section from lines `20` to `27`.

1. Commit and push your changes to the remote repository.

   ```bash
   git add .
   git commit -m 'added service bus configuration'
   git push
   ```
