---
title: '2. Send messages'
layout: default
nav_order: 2
parent: 'Lab 9: Send messages between microservices'
---

# Try out an existing microservice

In the java-microservices-aca-lab repository's src directory, the `spring-petclinic-messaging-emulator` microservice is already prepared to send messages to an Azure Service Bus namespace. You can add this microservice to your current Spring Petclinic project in the parent `pom.xml` file, deploy it as an extra microservice in your ACA environment and use this microservice's public endpoint to send messages to your Service Bus namespace. Test this functionality and inspect whether messages end up in the Service Bus namespace you just created by using the Service Bus Explorer for the `visits-requests` queue. You can use the following guidance to implement these changes:

- [Use Service Bus Explorer to run data operations on Service Bus (Preview)](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/service-bus-messaging/explorer).

## Step by step guidance

1. From the commandline window, in the `java-microservices-aca-lab` repository you cloned locally, navigate to the `src` directory and use your favorite text editor to open the `pom.xml` file in the root directory of the cloned repo. you'll have to uncomment the module for the `spring-petclinic-messaging-emulator` in the `<modules>` element at line 26.

    ```xml
    <module>spring-petclinic-messaging-emulator</module>
    ```

1. Run a build of the messaging emulator.

   ```bash
   cd ~/workspaces/java-microservices-aca-lab/src
   mvn clean package -DskipTests -rf :spring-petclinic-messaging-emulator
   ```

1. Once the build is done, create a new container app for the messaging emulator.

   ```bash
   APP_NAME="messaging-emulator" 
   az acr build --image spring-petclinic-$APP_NAME:$IMAGE_TAG --registry $MYACR --file spring-petclinic-$APP_NAME/ai.Dockerfile spring-petclinic-$APP_NAME
   az containerapp create \
       --name $APP_NAME \
       --resource-group $RESOURCE_GROUP \
       --environment $ACA_ENVIRONMENT \
       --registry-server $MYACR.azurecr.io \
       --registry-identity $APPS_IDENTITY_ID \
       --image $MYACR.azurecr.io/spring-petclinic-$APP_NAME:$IMAGE_TAG \
       --user-assigned $APPS_IDENTITY_ID \
       --ingress external \
       --target-port 8080 \
       --min-replicas 1 \
       --env-vars APPLICATIONINSIGHTS_CONNECTION_STRING=$AI_CONNECTIONSTRING APPLICATIONINSIGHTS_CONFIGURATION_CONTENT='{"role": {"name": "'$APP_NAME'"}}' \
       --bind $JAVA_CONFIG_COMP_NAME $JAVA_EUREKA_COMP_NAME \
       --runtime java
   ```

1. Update the container app to connect to database securely using identity.

   ```bash
   EMULATOR_ID=$(az containerapp show \
                 --resource-group $RESOURCE_GROUP \
                 --name $APP_NAME \
                 --query id \
                 -o tsv)
   
   az containerapp connection create mysql-flexible \
      --connection mysql_conn \
      --source-id $EMULATOR_ID \
      --target-id $DB_ID \
      --client-type SpringBoot \
      --user-identity client-id=$APPS_IDENTITY_CLIENT_ID subs-id=$SUBID mysql-identity-id=$ADMIN_IDENTITY_RESOURCE_ID user-object-id=$AAD_USER_ID \
      -c messaging-emulator
   ```

1. You configured the messaging-emulator with an external ingress. You can go to the portal and check application url for the messaging-emulator container app.

   ```bash
   messaging_emulator_FQDN=$(az containerapp show \
     --resource-group $RESOURCE_GROUP \
     --name messaging-emulator \
     --query properties.configuration.ingress.fqdn \
     -o tsv)
     
   echo $messaging_emulator_FQDN
   ```

1. Use a browser window to connect to messaging_emulator_FQDN. This will open up the messaging emulator page.

1. On the newly open browser page titled **Message**, enter **1** in the **Pet** text box and a random text in the **Message** text box, and then select **Submit**.

1. In the Azure Portal, navigate to your resource group and select the Service Bus namespace you deployed in the previous task.

1. In the navigation menu, in the **Entities** section, select **Queues** and then select the `visits-requests` queue entry.

1. On the **Overview** page of the `visits-requests` queue, verify that the active message count is set to 1.

1. Select **Service Bus Explorer** and select **Peek from start**. This operation allows you to peek at the top messages on the queue, without dequeuing them.

1. Select the message entry in the queue and review the **Message Body** section to confirm that its content matches the message you submitted.

You might want to inspect the code of the `messaging-emulator` microservice. Take a look at:

- The dependencies for the Service Bus in the `pom.xml` file.
- The `PetClinicVisitRequestSender` and `PetClinicMessageResponsesReceiver` classes in the `service` folder. These are the classes that enable sending and receiving of messages to and from a queue using JMS.
- The `PetClinicMessageRequest` and `PetClinicMessageResponse` classes in the `entity` folder. These are the messages being sent back and forth.
- The `MessagingConfig` class in the `config` folder. This class provides conversion to and from JSON.
- The `AzureServiceBusResource` class in the `web` folder. This class makes use of the above classed to send a message to the Service Bus.

In the next steps you will add similar functionality to the `visits-service`.
