---
title: '1. Prepare the environment'
layout: default
nav_order: 1
parent: 'Lab 6: Deploy to Azure automatically'
---

# 1. Prepare the environment

Prepare your local environment and plan your Azure resource, get ready for the one-click deployment.

{: .note }
> This automation guide is tested in linux environment only. Here we use WSL environment to run the automation tool.

## Step by step guidance

1. Install WSL environment
   Note: you may skip this step if you are using other linux environment.
   Install WSL to your windows system [How to install Linux on Windows with WSL](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install)

1. Install tools

   - Follow this guide to install azd tool to your WSL environment: [Install Azd](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/developer/azure-developer-cli/install-azd?tabs=winget-windows%2Cbrew-mac%2Cscript-linux&pivots=os-linux)
   - Install az cli: [Install az](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli-linux?pivots=apt#option-1-install-with-one-command)
   - Install docker: [Docker Desktop WSL 2](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/wsl/)

1. Plan your Azure Container Registry

   An Azure Container Registry is required to save the images for the solution, either create a new Container Registry or use an existing one:
   - Option 1: Create a new Azure Container Registry

    ```bash
    ACR_RESOURCE_GROUP=<your-resource-group>
    ACR_NAME=<acr-name>
    az acr create \
        -n $ACR_NAME \
        -g $ACR_RESOURCE_GROUP \
        --sku Basic \
        --admin-enabled true
    ```

    - Option 2: Use existing
    Collect the values for variable `ACR_RESOURCE_GROUP` and `ACR_NAME`
    Please add yourself the `Contributor` role in the container registry, we will:
        1. push images to the acr.
        1. assign `AcrPull` permission to new user managed identity.

1. Prepare placeholder image to Azure Container Registry
    In the azd deploy process, we will first create azure resource and container apps, then update the target container apps with the code in the lab solution.
    In this step, we push a placeholder image for the new container apps.

    - login to acr with command `az acr login -n $ACR_NAME`
    - use a simple java image as the placeholder image:

    ```bash
    az acr import --name $ACR_NAME \
        --source mcr.microsoft.com/azurespringapps/default-banner:distroless-2024022107-66ea1a62-87936983 \
        --image azurespringapps/default-banner:latest
    ```

1. Fill the azd configuration files

    - In your local repo, open file `azure.yaml`
        - replace all the `<your-acr>` with your variable `$ACR_NAME`

    - By default, the azd tool will create all resource into the same resource group, default to `rg-${environmentName}`
    Please refer to file [main.bicep](../../infra/bicep/main.bicep) for more configurations.
